Although its influence on the behavior modification procedures relatable to operant formulations has been negligible, Skinner has attempted to define the term.

Despite its weaknesses and inner conflicts, the humanistic movement was heroic in its scope and energy, and exceptional in its aspiration.

No deep understaning of the Solar System can be achieved without an appreciation of the basic properties of the Sun.

An exchange rate is the rate at which one country's currency may be exchanged for that of another.

Exchange rates have been governed in recent years primarily by the forces of supply and demand.

The exchange rate normally changes, depending upon the strength of a country's economy and its trade balance.

Due to the rapid increase in house prices, first time buyers are having difficulty buying a house.

Make an unjust or prejudicial distinction in the treatment of different categories of people or things, especially on the grounds of race, sex, or age, is called discrimination.

To keep your score valid, refrain, as far as possible, from whild guessing.

The American Revolutionary War was declared in 1775 when the thirteen colonies in North America decided to become independent from English Empire.

Due to(Owing to) the fact there was a decrease in demand, many companies were forced to downsize their workforce.

In terms of employment, the economic figures are looking more hopeful.

Overcrowding puts a strain on social infrastructure.

Your method was the essence of simplicity: you were an eternal question box, for you had a constant and insatiable desire to know and understand.

Eventually, you gradually lost your compulsive(irresistable, uncontrollable) drive to understand.

If you can recapture the "powerful urge to learn" with which you were born, you can go on increasing your vocabulary at a prodigious(tremendous, stunning) rate.

You have discovered the secret of true happiness, concerning yourself with the welfare of others.

Well it's hard to imagine living without the Internet. Not impossible, but not nearly as convenient.

We need to radically rethink our view of intelligence.

It's a process of academic inflation and it indicates the whole structure of education is shifting beneath our feet.

I believe our only hope for the future is to adopt a new conception of human ecology one in which we start to reconstitute our conception of the richness of human capacity.

Our education system has mined our minds in the way that we strip mine The Earth for particular commoditty and for the future it won't service.

Philanthropists love mankind and show such love by making substantial financial contributions to charitable organizations or by donating time and energy to helping those in need.

Aside from the fact that we all, rich or poor, sick or well, have the same amount of time, exactly twenty four hours every day.

A crucial factor in successful, ongoing learning is routine.

By studying other populations closely, we might uncover more startling adaptations, and anticipate their vulnerabilities to human interference before their survival is at risk.

Despite their divergent fates, they are forever joined in history.

Of Earth's 37 major underground reservoirs, 21 are on track to be irreversibly emptied.

Farmers are already finding ingenious ways to reduce their impact, like using special irrigation techniques to grow "more crop per drop".

If declining oxygen levels cause cell death in extreme parts of the body, the risk of amputation goes up.

There is no conclusive evidence of increases in allergic conditions in vicinities where this crop is cultivated.

It is an argument for the sensible control of badger numbers so they are once again regarded as an asset to the countryside, not a menace to it.

Normal speech is a muddle, a mix of sentence fragments and hesitations , repetitions and interruptions.

Witnessing the devastation and tragic scenes of human suffering left an indelible impression on Burchett and had a profound effect on the rest of his life.

The only people who can actually abolish hunting are its practitioners. Indeed, one of the major arguments against abolishing the monarchy is the desire to preserve tradition.

To tell the truth, I couldn't glimpse a trace of any such crisis in the mesmerizing flow of this work.

A large gasp emerged from my throat as I caught a glimpse of myself in the mirror.

Beware of false, deceptive people and situations that may bewilder you temporarily.

Questions like these will bewilder historians - and novelists - for decades to come.

Not only are financial products bewilderingly complex, advisors are relying on the wrong people to guide them.

In a kind of vicious circle, girls did not study science because other girls didn’t study science, even though they were good at it.

This feedback could create a dynamically unstable 'vicious circle' between population growth and resource depletion.

We find a vicious circle in which structuralization increases complexity, which in turn increases uncertainty, which in turn calls for rational solutions that invite restructuralization.

There is a vicious circle linking natural disasters with poverty: poor people suffer more drastically and have less resilience to enable reestablishment after disaster strikes.

They were delighted to come to a unanimous decision on the name. Experts are unanimous in the view that the main factor influencing any investor must be the direction of oil prices.

A just man maintains his life as a wretched beggar while another, stained by well known crimes, accumulates the highest honours.

His fingers moved and curled, showing his nervousness about the subject as he began to explain the horrid nightmare that tortured him so.

Snakes have to shed their skins, and they have to devour their prey.

Never deprive someone of hope; it might be all they have.

If children are deprived of these experiences they will not learn to handle the risks that they are certain to meet as they make their way through life.

Malnutrition occurs prior to starvation, which is simply the long-term deprival of food and its adverse effects.

Just as you must be diligent in increasing your link popularity and your ranking, you must be equally diligent to avoid being unfairly penalized.

Every human being is the beneficiary of this trust, and is equally entitled to its use. 

When a person donates blood, he does not and should not know who the beneficiary of his act of kindness has been.

Many of these fatalities and injuries could have been prevented if proper safety precautions were taken.

We must always take the correct precautionary measures to assure the safety of our children.

It is important to be wary of the way in which words are used to influence our thinking.

She had learned too early in life to be wary and watchful, to worry and to expect the worst.

The announcement has been made at very short notice without any prior consultation and has been a tremendous shock to those using the services.

He is someone who has given his all to the game and should go out after a valiant effort, win or lose.

They made a valiant attempt to avoid capture, but were forced to give themselves up because his friend was too badly injured to go on.

But the really amazing thing is that so many others in the free world not only do not agree but loathe and detest this message and its messengers.

He smiled at her, and she almost mistook it for a sneer , for the smile did not reach his eyes.

There was no remorse evident through his appearance; cold hard eyes and a seemingly perpetual scowl.

Flight attendants will be circulating around the cabin to offer you refreshments.




Wear sb out = tire them out

Once = As soon as = When = The instant

prominent feature of sth

pushback your intellectual horizons.

Take a striking resemblance

Lenient Parent



Reporting Verbs:
a) Reporting verb followed by a that clause
1. The professor argues(proposes) that biodiesel is an important fuel for cars.
2. She believes(considers, holds the view) that adding fluoride to water is beneficial to our health.
3. He claims(claims, asserts) that nuclear power is better for the environment than fossil fuels.
4. The research suggests(implies, indicates) that the Earth's ozone layer is being depleted.
5. The passage mentions that ultra-violet radiation is damagin to humans.
6. The experiment demonstrates(illustrates) that rust is formed when iron reacts with oxygen and water.
7. The professor emphasizes(makes the point) that chlorine has many important industrial uses.
b) Reporting verbs followed by a noun
1. The author supports the view that GM foods can help to solve food shortages.
2. He challenges(queries) the argument that GM food can damage the Earth's ecology.
3. The professor contradicts(refuses) the reading passage by arguing that nanotechnology will change our view of chemistry.
4. She defines(gives a definition) the meaning of an organic compound.
5. The professor identifies three types of materials: solids, liquids, and gases.
6. She expands on the topic of chemical reactions by giving two further examples.

Prepositions:
1. Despite / In spite of
2. Rather than / Instead of : Introduces one thing that is replaced by another thing
	Rather than hiring full-time employyees, they are hiring more temporary and part-time workers.
3. In addition to / As well as
4. Except for / With the exception of : introduces something that is not included
	Consumer confidence has risen steadily with the exception of real estate.
5. In terms of : Introduces a specific aspect of a topic that you are discussing
	In terms of employment, the economic figures are looking more hopeful.
6. Given / Considering
	Given the huge depts incurred during the financial crises, manyank banks are now more cautious about lending money
7. In the case of : Introduces an example
	In the case of USA, the government provided substantial finance to stabilize the banking system.
8. Compared with (to) / In comparison to / In contrast to
9. Thanks to / Because of / As a result of
	More people started to borrow money, thansk to low interest rates.
	
Inversions:

Never (before) have we faced such a challenge! (We have never faced such a challenge!)

Rarely has there been so much speculation about the future of the company. (There has rarely been so much speculation about the future of the company.)

Little did she understand what the conversation was about. (She didn't really understand what the conversation was about.)

Under no circumstances are you allowed to disturb the pilots. (You are not allowed to disturb the pilots under any circumstances.)

On no condition will the company bear responsibility for lost property. (The company will not bear responsibility for lost property on any condition.)

In no way am I related to the suspect. (I am in no way related to the suspect.)

Not only did he exceed the speed limit, but he had also consumed alcohol. (He not only exceeded the speed limit, but he had also consumed alcohol.)

Not only were you late, but you didn't even have a good excuse. (You were not only late, but you didn't have a good excuse either.)

Hardly had I arrived home when my phone rang. (I had hardly arrived home when my phone rang.)

Scarcely had she finished reading when she fell asleep. (She had scarcely finished reading when she fell asleep.)

Barely had they won the match when the coach had a heart attack. (They had barely won the match when the coach had a heart attack.)

No sooner had the company launched its new product than it went bankrupt. (The company had no sooner launched its new product than it went bankrupt.)

Note that hardly, scarcely and barely are followed by when, while no sooner is followed by than. (Sooner is the comparative form of soon.)

Should you see Kate, say hi from me. (if you should see Kate)

Were he to propose to you now, what would you say? (if he were to propose to you)

Were I you, I would stop smoking. (if I were you)

Were it not for Miguel, we wouldn't know what to do now. (if it weren't for Miguel)

Had we booked our flight earlier, it would have been cheaper. (if we had booked our flight earlier)

Had it not been for your foolishness, we wouldn't have got lost. (if it hadn't been for your foolishness)

When only after, only if, only in this way etc. are placed at the beginning of the sentence for rhetorical effect, the subject and auxiliary are inverted:

Only after lunch can you play. (You can only play after lunch.)

Only after finishing your homework can you play. (You can only play after you finish your homework.)

Only after you have finished your homework can you play. (You can only play after you have finished your homework.)

Only by guessing can you solve this puzzle. (You can only solve this puzzle by guessing.)

Only if everybody agreed would I accept this position. (I would only accept this position if everybody agreed.) 

Only in this way does this machine work. (This machine only works in this way.)

Only then did they discover his secret. (They only discovered his secret then.)

Only when he needed some help did he call me. (He only called me when he needed some help.)

Only when I filled my glass did I notice that it was broken. (I only noticed that my glass was broken when I filled it.)

The last sentence can be rephrased as:

Not until I filled my glass did I notice that it was broken. (I didn't notice that my glass was broken until I filled it.)

If only is followed by the subject at the beginning of the sentence, there is no inversion:

Only you can understand. (No one else can understand.)